# Methods and Properties

### What is a Method?

A method is a block of code that runs when called on. We can think of methods as tools in a toolbox. When we want to use a tool, we pick it up and use it. When we want to use a method, we *call the method* in our program. 

The syntax for calling a method is as follows.

*objectName*.**methodName**();

Methods always include parenthesis ```()``` after their names. That is how we identify them. Some methods perform their task without the need of any extra data, which means the parenthesis on the end will be empty. Others require us to *pass data* into them in order for them to do their job. 

Methods that require data to perform their job are called *with arguments* inside the parenthesis. Arguments are pieces of data that are passed into a method. 

*objectName*.**methodName**(```arguments```);

Some methods require more than one argument to perform their function. We can pass multiple arguments into a method by separating them with commas ```,``` . Note that **order matters** when calling a method with arguments. 

### Calling Methods 
 
Methods can be called anywhere in our program. When a method is called, the program executes the method entirely before the main branch of the program continues. Some methods *return* a value, which means that they send data back to the program when they complete. If a method returns a value, then the value is returned at the spot where the method was called.

Here are some example calls, with and without arguments. 

```javascript
// Math.random() is a method that takes no arguments. Notice the empty () on the end, since this method does not require arguments
let result1 = Math.random();

//Math.round() is a method that takes a single argument. Notice that we have to include a number value inside the paranthesis for Math.round() to function properly.
let result2 = Math.round(2.74);

//Math.pow() is a method that takes two arguments - a base number, and an exponent. We separate these arguments using commas. The order matters: the first argument is the base, and the second argument is the exponent. 
let result3 = Math.pow(2, 4);
```

### What is a Property?
A *property* is a value that is stored inside an object. We access properties similar to how we access methods. The syntax is as follows.

*objectName*.**propertyName**;

Properties are values that are stored within an Object. Many properties are *immutable*, which means they cannot be changed. It is common to see CAPITALIZED names for properties that are constant values.


### Wrap Up
Methods are pieces of code that only execute when they are called. Many methods perform tasks that are common - finding the average of a set of numbers, generating a random number, finding the length of a string value, etc. Methods allow programmers to write a block of code once and then call on it every time it is needed. Eventually, we will write our own methods to do repeatable tasks for us. 
