# Utilizing String Methods

### Flow of Execution

The *flow of execution* refers to the order of operations for a line of code. In gerneral, the flow of execution is as follows. 

1. The right hand side of the assignment operator ```=``` will occur first. Then, the result of the calculation on the right hand side will be saved to the variable on the left hand side of the assignment operator ```=```.
   
2. Any operations, method calls, and variable lookups will happen inside the *innermost paranthesis* first. This is similar to how paranthesis work in mathematics. 

3. After the operations inside the innermost paranthesis have completed, other operations inside additional paranthesis will happen. As before, operations, method calls, and variable lookups will happen starting with the innermost paranthesis. Eventually, all operations inside paranthesis will be done. 

4. Finally, the code will execute any remaining methods. It is possible that some methods will be *chained together*, which will cause them to execute from left to right. 

5. Once all operations, method calls, and variable lookups have been done, the final value will be assigned to the variable on the left hand side of the assignment operator ```=```. 

### Code Examples

The following code examples are meant to demonstrate the flow of execution for more complex statements.

#### Example 1: 
```javascript
//CODE EXAMPLE
let name = "Jeramie";
let result = name.substring(0,3).toUpperCase();
```

In this statement, we see that we have two methods **chained together** - substring and toUpperCase. These methods will execute left to right. First, the substring of name will trigger, which will return the string "Jer." The following code represents this first step. 

```javascript
//CODE EXAMPLE
let result = "Jer".toUpperCase();
```

### CODE EXAMPLE + OUTPUT

Text.

```javascript
//CODE EXAMPLE
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
CODE OUTPUT
```
### Wrap Up
WRAP UP TEXT
