# Escape Sequences

### Using Escape Sequences

The console.log() method can print a custom string to the console. Recall that a **string** is a sequence of 0 or more characters. A keyboard has many of the symbols that can be used in a string - including symbols such as !, @, #, $, %, and others. A space is also considered a character. 

There are other special characters, called **escape sequences**, that we can use in a string value. These special characters must be included inside double quotes to be a valid part of a string. 

The following special characters can be used:
* ```"\n"```: A new-line character, similar to hitting the ENTER key on the keyboard
* ```"\t"```: A tab character, similar to hitting the TAB key on the keyboard
* ```"\""```: A double quote character
  * NOTE: We need to have a way to differentiate between ending a string with a " character, and using a " character inside of a string value - which is why we use the character ```\"``` inside of double quotes
* ```"\\"```: A backslash character
  * NOTE: Since backslash ```\``` is used as the syntax modifier to identify a special character, we cannot simply use a backslash inside of a string without a special modifier
  
Notice that every *call* to the console.log() method will print on a new line. If we use the new line character escape sequence ```\n``` in our message, then we can move to a new line in the middle of a message.

### Printing with Escape Sequences

The code example below utilizes the escape sequences shown above. Note that we can create a string message and save it to a variable before printing it to the console, or we can put a *literal string* message inside the paranthesis of the console.log() method to print it to the console.

```javascript
//Create string messages
let message1 = "This is\non two lines!";
let message2 = "We are learning about \"Escape Sequences\" in this lesson!";

//Print to the console
console.log("All escape sequences start with a backslash \\ character...");
console.log("We can\tuse tab characters\tto space things out...");
console.log(message1);
console.log(message2);
```
Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
All escape sequences start with a backslash \ character...
We can  use tab characters      to space things out...
This is
on two lines!
We are learning about "Escape Sequences" in this lesson!
```
### Wrap Up
Escape Sequences are useful when we are trying to format how messages are printed to the console or when we want to use double quotes in a string message. Overall, it is important to realize that special characters can be used in any string value - whether that is a literal string that is being printed with console.log(), or a string variable with a saved message. 