# Using a Prompt

### Installing Required Files

**You can skip this step if your development environment already has the required files installed.**

There are many ways to take in data using JavaScript. Since we are using NodeJS, we are going to create and use a prompt variable so that we can type data into the console and take it into our program.

In order to use a prompt, we first have to make sure that our JavaScript environment is using the required files and *modules* used for a prompt. To do this, we need to first open a terminal and use the following command:

```npm install prompt-sync```

This command will install all of the required files on our system needed to create a prompt. There is a chance that the environment you are working in already has these files installed. Additionally, installing these files will prepare your development environment to use a prompt moving forward.

### Creating a Prompt Variable

After the required files are installed, a prompt variable can be created. To do this, we use the following code.

```javascript
const prompt = require("prompt-sync")();
```

This code calls the *require* method, which is a method that is used to include external modules/files in a program. This line of code will load the files from **prompt-sync** into the variable we named *prompt*. Note that the name prompt is just a variable name. We have the option of using a different variable name if we want to. 

Also note that we *declare* the prompt variable with the ```const``` keyword, which means it cannot be changed after it is created. This is good because we always want our prompt variable to refer to the prompt-sync object we create.

### Using a Prompt

We can use the prompt to take in data from the console once the prompt variable is created. 

```javascript
//Create a prompt
const prompt = require('prompt-sync')();

//Take in the user's name
let userName = prompt("Enter your name: ");
```

Notice that we can now call the **prompt method** to take user input. The *argument* that we put inside the prompt method parenthesis is the message that is printed to the console, and what the user enters into the console is returned to the program and saved to the varible *userName*. The user enters their data into the console using the keyboard, and uses the ```ENTER``` key to accept the input they entered. 

**Any data that is entered by the user will come into the program as a *string* datatype.**

### Wrap Up
Using a prompt allows us to take in data from the console to use in our program. We need to save any input we take into a variable so that we can use it.
