# JavaScript Basics

### What is JavaScript?

JavaScript is a scripting language commonly used to implement features on web pages. Web browsers are able to execute JavaScript code natively and quickly. JavaScript is used to create dynamic web pages, animations, web-based video games, mobile apps...and the list goes on.

### Learning JavaScript - Console Applications

In this course, we will be creating JavaScript programs that use the *console* to take in and display information. The console is a panel that displays important messages, such as errors, for web developers. All web browsers (Chrome, Firefox, etc.) have a built-in console that can be accessed by the user. For our initial learning, we will be writing JavaScript programs that will use this console to give and recieve information rather than using a webpage to do so. 

### What does JavaScript code look like?

All JavaScript code files end with the extension .JavaScript. Here is an example of a simple JavaScript program, which could be named *example.JavaScript*.

```javascript
console.log("Hello World");
console.log("Let's print a prime number...");
console.log(17);
console.log(1+3);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.
```
Hello World
Let's print a prime number...
17
4
```

We can observe a couple of basic ideas from this code.

1. console.log() is the *method* that is used to print messages to the console. The message printed goes inside the parenthesis
2. Any message printed to the console that includes words needs to be written inside double quotes
3. We can also print number values to the console, which do not require us to use double quotes
4. We can perform calculations inside the console.log() method, and the result of them will be printed to the console
5. Every *call* to the console.log() method will print on a new line
6. Every line of JavaScript code ends with a semicolon

### Wrap Up

We now know how to print messages to the console using the console.log() method. We also know that printing messages requires the messages to be in double quotes inside the parenthesis of the console.log() method. We also know that we can have JavaScript perform calculations and print the results by putting calculations inside the console.log() method. 