# Printing and Concatenation

### Printing on Separate Lines

Notice that every *call* to the console.log() method will print on a new line. We can also call console.log() *without arguments*, meaning without any data in the parenthesis, if we want to print a blank line in the console.

### Concatenation

**Concatenation** is the operation used to create a string out of multiple pieces of data. We can concatenate multiple strings to create one combined custom string, or we can concatenate a variable with a string to integrate the value of that variable into the original string. We can store any string in a variable or print it to the console using the console.log() method. 

We **concatenate** by using the ```+``` operation with a string and another piece of date. We can also use the ```+``` operator to add to *number values* together...which means that ```+``` actually performs multiple functions in programming depending on the types of data it is working with!

Consider the code shown below. 

```javascript
//create variables
let name = "Mickey";
let age = 50;

//Create a custom message using values of name and age
let message = name+" is "+age+" years old. Wow!";
console.log(message);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
Mickey is 50 years old. Wow!
```

Notice that we have to use the ```+``` operation whenever we are "adding together" pieces to create a custom string message. We can also perform **concatenation** directly inside a console.log() method call. Consider the following example.

```javascript
//find the average value of three numbers
let num1 = 17;
let num2 = 3;
let num3 = 4;
console.log("The average of "+num1+", "+num2+", and "+num3+" is: "+(num1+num2+num3)/3);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
The average of 17, 3, and 4 is: 8
```

When writing this code, we need to consider **flow of execution**, and **order of operations**. Inside the console.log() method parenthesis, we see a few operations - we see concatenation, and we see another set of parenthesis with addition of three variables. Similar to mathematics, the *inner parenthesis causes the addition of num1, num2, and num3 to happen first*. After the sum is found, there are no more grouping symbols. Therefore, the concatention operations execute and the final string is constructed. Finally, when the string is done "being made" with concatenation, the final string message is printed to the console. 

### Wrap Up
Concatenation is an operation that *constructs a string* from multiple parts. We can concatenate multiple strings together into one string, we can concatenate the value of a variable into a string message, or we can turn a piece of non-string data into a string. 
