# The Math Object

### Math Object Overview

In JavaScript, an object is a collection of related data (called properties) and methods. The ```Math``` object is an object that contains many *properties* and *methods* that can be called on to do various math operations. 

We are able to call both *properties* and *methods* in our program that are stored inside the Math object. We can tell that Math is an object because it has a Capitalized name.

### Math Properties
There are a number of mathematic constants (such as PI) that are stored as *properties* of the Math object. We can use these properties by referring to them in our program. Remember that we cannot change any of these values. They are *immutable* values. 

Each of these properties are called using the following syntax.

```Math.```**propertyName;**

We should be familiar with the following Math properties.

* ```Math.PI```: Returns an approximate value of PI (3.14159...) with 15 digits of precision

* ```Math.E```: Returns an approximate value of Euler's constant (2.71828...)

* ```Math.SQRT2```: Returns an approximate value of the square root of 2 (1.414...)

Notice that all of the properties are CAPITALIZED, which tells us that they cannot be changed. It is common practice for constant values to have capitalized names.

### Math Methods
JavaScript supports a variety of methods in the Math object. We do not need to know all of them. That said, there are a few that we will routinely use in our programs that we should be familiar with. 

Every method in the Math object is called using the following syntax.

```Math.```**methodName();**

We should be familiar with the following Math methods:

* ```Math.random()```: Returns a random floating-point number from 0.0 to 1.0, not inclusive of 1.0. This means it effectively returns a random number from 0.0 to 0.999 (repeating).
  
* ```Math.min(num1, num2)```: Returns the smaller (minimum) of the two values, num1 and num2. 
  
* ```Math.max(num1, num2)```: Returns the larger (maximum) of the two values, num1 and num2. 

* ```Math.round(num)```: Returns a rounded version of num, which is rounded to the nearest integer  using traditional rounding rules.

* ```Math.ceil(num)```: Returns a rounded version of num, which is always rounded up to the nearest integer.

* ```Math.floor(num)```: Returns a rounded version of num, which is always rounded down to the nearest integer.

* ```Math.abs(num)```: Returns the absolute value (positive version) of num.

* ```Math.pow(base, exponent)```: Returns the result of (base)<sup>exponent</sup>

* ```Math.sqrt(num)```: Returns the square root of num.

* ```Math.trunc(num)```: Returns the integer portion of num as an integer (numeric) value.

### Wrap Up
There are many more properties and methods stored in the Math object that are not covered here. That said, we can always look up other information on the Math object when we run into a problem that requires us to extend our knowledge. You can read more about the Math object [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math).
