# Rounding Numbers

### Rounding With .toFixed() Method

Recall that there are two types of number data types in JavaScript. 
* *integers*, which are +/- numbers without decimals
* *floating-point* numbers, which are +/- numbers with decimal places. 

JavaScript supports the rounding of floating-point values to a given number of decimal places. We can do this using the ```.toFixed()``` method. This method is an **instance method** that we call directly on a floating-point value. 

```javascript
let firstNum = 3.745;
let secondNum = 5;
console.log(firstNum.toFixed(2));
console.log(secondNum.toFixed(3));
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
3.75
5.000
```

Notice that the ```.toFixed()``` method is called on ta variable that stores a numeric value. We cannot call the method on a literal value. Also, notice that we can add *insignificant digits* to the back of a number with the ```.toFixed()``` method. The number ```5``` and ```5.000``` have the same numerical value. That said, we might want to include these trailing zeroes when working with certain units, such as currency.

### Rounding with Math Methods

There are also methods that exist inside the **Math Object** that we can use to round values. There are three methods that we commonly use.
* ```Math.round()```: Rounds a number value to the nearest whole number using traditional rounding.
* ```Math.ceil()```: Always **rounds up** to the nearest whole number, regardless of decimal values.
* ```Math.floor()```: Always **rounds down** to the nearest whole number, regardless of decimal values.

Notice that these methods are always *called on the Math object*, which means they always start with ```Math.```

### Code Example - Math Methods

The following code example uses these math methods.

```javascript
let number = 3.76;
console.log(Math.round(num1));
console.log(Math.ceil(num1));
console.log(Math.floor(num1));
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
4
4
3
```
Notice that all three of these methods return an integer datatype since there are no decimal places. 

### Overwriting Values with Rounded Values
Sometimes, we want to round values in our program before using them in calculations. To do this, we can use our rounding methods with the assignment operator ```=``` to change a value to a rounded version. The following code example shows how we can do this.

```javascript
let number = 3.78459
number = number.toFixed(2);
console.log(number);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
3.78
```

Recall the **flow of execution** of a JavaScript program. The right hand side of the assignment operator ```=``` happens first, then the result of the right hand side is *assigned* to the variable on the left of the assignment operator ```=```.

### Wrap Up
Rounding values is very common in programming. Remember that working with unrounded / raw values is usually preferred when doing calculations. That said, working with specific units, such as currency, may require us to round values before calculations take place. 
