# Comments

### Comments

Most modern programming languages, such as JavaScript, Java, C#, Python, etc. have the ability to create *comments* inside a code file. Comments are pieces of text that the browser will ignore when running the program. In short: comments are meant to be read by humans, not by computers. Programmers often leave comments to explain what is going on in their code so that other programmers will be able to easily understand it. 

### Types of Comments

There are two types of comments in JavaScript:
1. Single line comments, which are started with ```//```
2. Multi-line comments, also called block comments, which are started with ```/*``` and ended with ```*/```

### Code Example - Writing Comments

The code example below uses comments to explain the code that is written. Note that the comments are not read by the computer. Most IDEs (Independent Development Environments) will color comments in green to help us identify them.

```javascript
//Print a name to the console.
console.log("Carmen");
/*
The next part of the code will print the average of three numbers to the console.

The calculation can be done inside of the console.log() method.
*/
console.log((5+11+19)/3);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
Carmen
11.666666666666666
``````

### Wrap Up

In this lesson, we saw how to create two types of comments: **single line comments** and **multi-line / block comments**. We should always include comments in our code to explain what is going on. Comments help keep us on track, and also help others to read and understand our code easily.
