# Variables - Part 1

### What is a Variable?

In programming, a *variable* is a named space in memory that holds a value. Variables allow us to save a value and refer to it later. We can also change the value a variable holds and update it as our program executes.

Variables are saved values that can be referred to by their name in a program. They can be called on after they have been created. 

There are two basic types of variables:
1. **Mutable Variables**, which can have their value changed after they are created and assigned a value
2. **Constant Variables**, which cannot be changed after a value has been assigned to them

### Creating Variables

There are two steps to creating a variable:
1. **Declaring** the variable
2. **Assigning** a value to the variable

 ##### Step 1: Declaration
 
 There are two ways to declare a variable in JavaScript. We can use the keyword ```var```, which is a reserved word in JavaScript. Or, we can use the keyword ```let```, which is another reserved word in JavaScript. 

 Constant variables use the keyword ```const``` when being declared. 

 **For our class, we will use the keyword ```let``` when declaring variables.**
 
 JavaScript is a *dynamicly typed language*, which means every variable, regardless of datatype, can be declared using ```var``` or ```let```. JavaScript supports a variety of different datatypes, which will be discussed later.

The following code creates three different variables. Note that there are no values given to the variables yet.

```javascript
let firstName;
let age;
let gpa;
let isAwesome;
```

By declaring these variables, we have creating a named spot in memory that we can use to store a value. In order to do that, we need to **assign** a value to the variable using the assignment operator, ```=```.

##### Step 2: Assignment

The variables we *declared* in step 1 are ready to have values assigned. We use the equals sign to assign values to a variable. The code below assigns values to the variables we declared. 

```javascript
firstName = "Iannelli";
age = 38;
gpa = 2.746;
isAwesome = true;
```
##### Common Practice - Declare + Assign
It is common for us to declare variables and assign values to them in a single line. The following code works the same as the two previous examples.

```javascript
let firstName = "Iannelli";
let age = 38;
let gpa = 2.746;
let isAwesome = true;
const pi = 3.14159;
```
**Note: Constant variables must be declared and assigned a value in a single line.**

### Flow of Execution
The assignment operator ```=``` is the syntax used to assign a value to a variable. We can store all kinds of data to variables, including literal values and the results of calculations. 

When using the assignment operator ```=```, all of the code on the **right hand side of ```=``` will resolve first**, then the result will be saved to the variable on the left of ```=```. Consider the following code segment. 

```javascript
let sum = 1+2+3;
console.log(sum);
```
The right hand side of the ```=``` will happen first. The sum of 1, 2, and 3 will be calculated, resulting in a value of 6. Then, the resulting value of 6 will be saved to a variable named sum. Then, the value of sum will be printed to the console. Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
6
```

### Wrap Up

In this lesson, we saw how to **declare** variables using the ```var``` and ```let``` keywords, as well as **assign values** to variables using the assignment operator ```=```. In the next lesson, we will discuss data types that can be saved to variables, as well as how to overwrite a variable's value to a new value. 
