# Variables - Part 2

### Changing Variable Values

We **declare** a variable when we create it for the first time. We then assign a value to the variable. When we assign a value for the first time, we call that **initilizing the variable**. 

The following code will **declare and initialize** variables holding a person's name and age. Note that we use the keyword ```let``` to declare the variables, and the assignment operator ```=``` to assign values to them after they are declared. 

```javascript
let name = "Jeramie";
let age = 38;
```
After the variables are declared, they exist in our program and they cannot be deleted. That said, we can change the value that a variable holds. To do this, we need to **re-assign a value** to the variable using the assignment operator ```=```. 

The following code will re-assign values to the ```name``` and ```age``` variables. 

```javascript
name = "Natalie";
age = 17;
```
Notice that we do not have to use the keyword ```let``` here, because we do not need to re-declare the variables - they already exist. 

### JavaScript Data Types

There are many types of data that can be stored in JavaScript.

* *Number:* JavaScript supports positive and negative values, with and without decimals. Numbers without decimals are called **integers** and numbers with decimals are called **floating-point numbers**, or "floats" for short. 
  
* *String:* A string is a sequence of 0 or more characters inside double quotes or single quotes. These characters can include most keys on a standard keyboard - letters, numbers, and symbols (including spaces). **We will use double quotes to define string values in our class.**
  * NOTE: A string can have zero characters, ```""``` is known as an *empty string*
  
* *Boolean:* Boolean data has only two possible values, ```true``` or ```false```. Both ```true``` and ```false``` are reserved words in JavaScript since they are literal Boolean values. Note that ```true``` and ```false``` are not in quotes, since that would make them string values. 

* *Null:* They keyword ```null``` is used to represent *an absence of value* in JavaScript. This is the default value for some variables after they are declared, before they are initialized to a value. 

* *Object*: An *object* is a collection of multiple pieces of related data, and methods that operate on that data. These data types are used in advanced programming paradeigms, such as **Object-Oriented Programming**. 

### Dynamic Typing of Variables

JavaScript is a *dynamic programming language*, which means that variables are allowed to change the type of data they are holding dynamically. Recall that we use the keyword ```let``` to declare a variable that can hold any type of data we choose to assign it. We do not have to explicitly tell JavaScript what type of data is being stored in a variable. Instead, JavaScript will determine what type of data is being held in a variable as the program executes line by line. 

```javascript
//CODE EXAMPLE
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
CODE OUTPUT
``````

WRAP UP TEXT
