# Advanced Printing

### Escape Sequences / Special Characters

The console.log() method can print a custom string to the console. Recall that a **string** is a sequence of 0 or more characters. Our keyboard has many of the symbols that can be used in a string - including symbols such as !, @, #, $, %, and others. A space is also considered a character. 

There are other special characters, called **escape sequences**, that we can use in a string value. These special characters must be included inside double quotes to be a valid part of a string. 

The following special characters can be used:
* ```"\n"```: A new-line character, similar to hitting the ENTER key on the keyboard
* ```"\t"```: A tab character, similar to hitting the TAB key on the keyboard
* ```"\""```: A double quote character
  * NOTE: We need to have a way to differentiate between ending a string with a " character, and using a " character inside of a string value - which is why we use the character ```\"``` inside of double quotes
* ```"\\"```: A backslash character
  * NOTE: Since backslash ```\``` is used as the syntax modifier to identify a special character, we cannot simply use a backslash inside of a string without a special modifier

### Printing with Special Characters

The code example below utilizes the escape sequences shown above. Note that we can create a string message and save it to a variable before printing it to the console, or we can put a *literal string* message inside the paranthesis of the console.log() method to print it to the console.

```javascript
//Create string messages
let message1 = "This is\non two lines!";
let message2 = "We are learning about \"Escape Sequences\" in this lesson!";

//Print to the console
console.log("All escape sequences start with a backslash \\ character...");
console.log("We can\tuse tab characters\tto space things out...");
console.log(message1);
console.log(message2);
```
Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
All escape sequences start with a backslash \ character...
We can  use tab characters      to space things out...
This is
on two lines!
We are learning about "Escape Sequences" in this lesson!
```

### Printing on Separate Lines

Notice that every *call* to the console.log() method will print on a new line. If we use the new line character escape sequence ```\n``` in our message, then we can move to a new line in the middle of a message. 

### Concatenation

We can also use **concatenation** to combine the value of a variable with a string to create a custom string. We can store this string in a variable or print it to the console using the console.log() method. 

We **concatenate** by using the ```+``` operation with a string and another data type. We can also use the ```+``` operator to add to *number values* together...which means that ```+``` actually performs multiple functions in programming depending on the types of data it is working with!

Consider the code shown below. 

```javascript
//create variables
let name = "Mickey";
let age = 50;

//Create a custom message using values of name and age
let message = name+" is "+age+" years old. Wow!";
console.log(message);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
Mickey is 50 years old. Wow!
```

Notice that we have to use the ```+``` operation whenever we are "adding together" pieces to create a custom string message. We can also perform **concatenation** directly inside a console.log() method call. Consider the following example.

```javascript
//find the average value of three numbers
let num1 = 17;
let num2 = 3;
let num3 = 4;
console.log("The average of "+num1+", "+num2+", and "+num3+" is: "+(num1+num2+num3)/3);
```

Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
The average of 17, 3, and 4 is: 8
```

When writing this code, we need to consider **flow of execution**, and **order of operations**. Inside the console.log() method parenthesis, we see a few operations - we see concatenation, and we see another set of parenthesis with addition of three variables. Similar to mathematics, the *inner parenthesis causes the addition of num1, num2, and num3 to happen first*. After the sum is found, there are no more grouping symbols. Therefore, the concatention operations execute and the final string is constructed. Finally, when the string is done "being made" with concatenation, the final string message is printed to the console. 

### Wrap Up
This lesson showed us how to use escape sequences utilizing the ```\``` character as well as how to make custom strings using **concatenation**. Specifically, concatenation is a widely used tactic in programming that we will use all the time as programmers.
