# Arithmetic Operations

### Common Operations

JavaScript supports all basic arithmetic operations used in mathematics. This includes addition ```+```, subtraction ```-```, multiplication ```*```, and division ```/```. Additionally, Javascript (and other languages) utilize an operation called *modulus* ```%```, which returns the remainder of division rather than a quotient. 

Consider the following code example which shows these operations in action.
```javascript
// Common Arithmetic
let num1 = 3;
let num2 = 2;
let sum = num1+num2;
let diff = num1-num2;
let prod = num1*num2;
let quot = num1/num2;

// Modulus
let remain = num1%num2;

//Print Results
console.log("Sum: "+sum);
console.log("Difference: "+diff);
console.log("Product: "+prod);
console.log("Quotient: "+quot);
console.log("Remainder: "+remain);
```
Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
Sum: 5
Difference: 1
Product: 6
Quotient: 1.5
Remainder: 1
```
### Assignment Operators

Recall the *simple assignment operator* ```=```. The simple assignment operator is used to assign a value on the right hand side to a variable on the left hand side. There are other assignment operators that are used to perform arithmetic on the value of a variable and re-save the new value to the variable.

For example, consider the following code snippet. 
```javascript
let sum = 10;
sum = sum + 5;
```
This code will add 5 to the value of sum, and re-save the new value to sum. However, there is a simpler way to perform this type of operation in JavaScript. The following code can be used to perform the same operation. 
```javascript
let sum = 10;
sum += 5;
```
This code uses the *addition assignment operator*. The addition assignmen operator adds the value on the right hand side of the ```+=``` operator to the value and then re-saves the variable value. 

The following assignment operators are available in JavaScript:
* *Addition Assignment Operator:* ```+=```
* *Subtraction Assignment Operator:* ```-=```
* *Multiplication Assignment Operator:* ```*=```
* *Division Assignment Operator:* ```/=```
* *Modulus (Remainder) Assignment Operator:* ```%=```

## Increment and Decrement Operators
JavaScript also has special operators for *incrementing* (adding one) to variable values, and *decrementing* (subtracting one) from variable values. 
* *Increment Operator*: ```++```
* *Decrement Operator:* ```--```

## Code Example

The following code illustrates the use of the various assignment operators.
```javascript
let value = 10; //value is 10
value += 5; //value is now 15 (10+5)
value -= 10; //value is now 5 (15-10)
value *= 3; //value is now 15 (3*5)
value /= 3; //value is now 5 (15/3)
value %= 2; //value is now 1 (remainder of 5/2 is 1)
value++; //value is now 2 (value+1)
value--; //value is now 1 (value-1)
```

### Wrap Up
Arithmetic operators are the core of programming languages, since most programs perform some type of arithmetic. When programming, it is wise to utilize paranethesis ```( )``` to create math expressions that work as intended. 
