# String Methods and Properties

Recall that a method is a block of code that runs when called on. Methods perform specific jobs inside a program. When a method runs, it will sometimes **return a value** to the program. This means that the resulting value from a method will be returned to the spot where the method was called. 

Most string methods are **instance methods**, which means they are *called on an existing string variable*. This means that a string variable must exist before these methods can be used. 

There are a number of methods associated with string values. Many string methods return values that we can then save and use in our program. 

Consider the following list of common string properties and methods. Assume that a string variable named **value** has been created.

#### String Properties

* ```value.length```: Returns the length of the string *value*, as an integer. The length is the number of characters contained in the string. 

#### String Methods
  
* ```value.indexOf("target")```: Returns the index of the first instance of the string **target** if it is found inside *value*. If the string **target** is not found, then the method will return -1. 

* ```value.charAt(indexNumber)```: Returns a single character as a new string at a specified index. The indexNumber value (an integer) must exist in order for this method to function properly. 

* ```value.substring(indexNumber)```: Returns a new string based off of the string **value**. The new string value starts at the indexNumber (integer) index and goes to the end of the **value** string.

* ```value.substring(index1, index2)```: Returns a new string based off of the string **value**. The new string value starts at the index1 (integer) index and stops at the index2 (integer) index. The new string *does not include the character at  index2*. 

* ```value.toUpperCase()```: Returns a new string based off of the string **value**. The new string will be the uppercase character version of **value**. Note that numeric and symbol characters will not change since they do not have uppercase versions. 

* ```value.toLowerCase()```: Returns a new string based off of the string **value**. The new string will be the lowercase character version of **value**. Note that numeric and symbol characters will not change since they do not have lowercase versions. 


### Calling Properties & Methods

We can call any of the aforementioned properties and methods on a string variable after it is has been created. The following code snippets show how this is done in JavaScript. 

```javascript
//Create a string variable
let stringVal = "Computer Science";

//Store the length - the number of characters in the string (remember: length is a property, not a method)
let stringValLength = stringVal.length;

//Store the first value of the string (index 0)
let firstChar = stringVal.charAt(0);

//Store the index of the first occurance of "e"
let first_e = stringVal.indexOf("e");

//Store an uppercase version of stringVal
let stringValUpper = stringVal.toUpperCase();

//Print results with custom messages
console.log("The string has "+stringValLegnth+" characters.");
console.log("The first character of the string is: "+firstChar);
console.log("The first occurance of an \"e\" occurs at index: "+first_e);
console.log("The uppercase version of the string is: "+stringValUpper);
```
Running this code will print the following messages to the console.

```
The string has 16 characters.
The first character of the string is: C
The first occurance of an "e" occurs at index: 7
The uppercase version of the string is: COMPUTER SCIENCE
```

**NOTE:** In the example above, we should note that calling methods on the variable *stringVal* did not change the value of *stringVal*. All of the methods called on a string return a **new string value**, which is based off of the value held by the variable the method is called on.

### Wrap Up
Strings have many different properties and methods associated with them that we can use in a variety of ways. Most importantly, we must remember that a string variable must exist so that these methods can be called on an existing string value. 

Additionally, we must remember that calling methods on an existing string value will return a new string that is based off of the value being held by the variable we call the method on. None of these string methods will change the value of the original string variable when they are called. 
